DOCS-6567 SharePoint 2013 2.3 M3 Update (#1077)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft-sharepoint-2013-connector.adoc

= Microsoft SharePoint 2013 Connector - Mule 3
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Microsoft SharePoint 2013 Connector v2.3

Anypoint Connector for Microsoft SharePoint 2013 (SharePoint 2013 Connector) is a web app platform for content and document management, intranet portals, collaboration, extranets, websites, and enterprise search.

The connector enables integration with SharePoint 2013 through its REST API.

Release Notes:
xref:release-notes::connector/microsoft-sharepoint-2013-connector-release-notes.adoc[Microsoft SharePoint 2013 Connector Release Notes] +
Samples: link:{attachmentsdir}/sharepoint-connector-samples.zip[sharepoint-connector-samples.zip] +
FAQ: <<Frequently Asked Questions>>

== Supported Operations

* *Lists and List Items API*: Create, delete, retrieve, and update lists and list items
* *Files and Folders API*:

> ** Files: Add, retrieve content, retrieve metadata, delete, check out, undo check out, check in, publish, unpublish, approve, deny, recycle, and copy files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Files: Add, retrieve content, retrieve metadata, delete, check out, undo checkout, check in, publish, unpublish, approve, deny, recycle, and copy files
```

Configuring the connector to use claims-based authentication requires the following information from the Security Token Service (STS) that to use for authenticating:

* *Sts Url*: The STS endpoint that accepts username and password for authenticating users and understands the WS-Trust 1.3 protocol. When the STS is Microsoft’s ADFS (Active Directory Federation Services), this URL usually is `https://youradfs.com/adfs/services/trust/13/usernamemixed`.

> * *Sts App Identifier*: A string that identifies the Sharepoint site in the STS. It is also known as Relying Party Identifier, Client Identifier, Scope, or Realm. When the STS is Microsoft’s ADFS, this value can be discovered in the AD FS Management console under AD FS at *Trust Relationships* > *Relying Party Trusts* > (Sharepoint Site’s relying part properties) > *Identifiers* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Sts App Identifier*: A string that identifies the Sharepoint site in the STS
It is also known as Relying Party Identifier, Client Identifier, Scope, or Realm. When the STS is Microsoft’s ADFS, this value can be discovered in the AD FS Management console under AD FS at *Trust Relationships* > *Relying Party Trusts* > (Sharepoint Site’s relying part properties) > *Identifiers* tab.
```
Do you think that the audience will understand the click-flow here, with the text in parens?

=== Security Token Authentication

You can use a SAML security token to log in to SharePoint. You can provide an XML body via a POST request to get the security token that you put in the Studio Security Token field. 

To obtain a security token, make a POST request to `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/extSTS.srf+` with this XML body:

[source,text,linenums]
----
<s:Envelope xmlns:s="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope"
      xmlns:a="http://www.w3.org/2005/08/addressing"
      xmlns:u="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
  <s:Header>
    <a:Action s:mustUnderstand="1">http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/trust/RST/Issue</a:Action>
    <a:ReplyTo>
      <a:Address>http://www.w3.org/2005/08/addressing/anonymous</a:Address>
    </a:ReplyTo>

>     <a:To s:mustUnderstand="1">https://login.microsoftonline.com/extSTS.srf</a:To>

Reviewer: OK, I am guessing that this spacing thing is ok....

    <o:Security s:mustUnderstand="1"
       xmlns:o="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd">
      <o:UsernameToken>
        <o:Username>[username]</o:Username>
        <o:Password>[password]</o:Password>
      </o:UsernameToken>
    </o:Security>
  </s:Header>
  <s:Body>
    <t:RequestSecurityToken xmlns:t="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/trust">
      <wsp:AppliesTo xmlns:wsp="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2004/09/policy">
        <a:EndpointReference>
          <a:Address>[endpoint]</a:Address>
        </a:EndpointReference>
      </wsp:AppliesTo>
      <t:KeyType>http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/NoProofKey</t:KeyType>
      <t:RequestType>http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/trust/Issue</t:RequestType>
      <t:TokenType>urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.0:assertion</t:TokenType>
    </t:RequestSecurityToken>
  </s:Body>
</s:Envelope>
----

> The response from the previous request contains the security token between the <wsse:BinarySecurityToken> tags.

Reviewer: ditto prev question about this sentence in all three bug PRs:
```suggestion
The response to this request contains the security token between the <wsse:BinarySecurityToken> tags.
```

After you have a security token, specify the token value in Studio:

image::sharepoint/sharepoint-security-token-config.png[Security Token Configuration]

> 

Reviewer: periods at the end of each list item below:

* Security token: Enter the corresponding security token
* Site URL: Enter the corresponding site URL

> == Install this Connector

Reviewer: Wasn't this "Install the Connector" in the previous two PRs? 
"This" takes a cap. in titles.

SELECT AuthorId, 'Date created', List3MultiId FROM Inventory
----

> Using internal and/or title field names is supported within the following list's operations only when:

Reviewer: Replace "and/or" with the most likely of the two options.

Using the File and Folder API allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete files and folders, and also check in, check out, publish, approve, deny, copy, and recycle files from Documents Lists.

> When using the folders operations, the server's relative URL refers to where the folder is or will be. The URL can be in the format /site/docList/innerFolder or in docList/innerFolder  format. In the second case, the site specified in the connector's configuration site URL parameter is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the folders operations, the server's relative URL refers to where the folder is or will be. The URL can be in the format /site/docList/innerFolder or in docList/innerFolder format. In the second case, the site specified in the connector's configuration site URL parameter is used.
```

doc:name="Sharepoint 2013"/>
----

> To upload large files you need to configure your Sharepoint and IIS servers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload large files you must configure your Sharepoint and IIS servers:
```

- Set 'Maximum Upload Size' to 2047MB (max) at SP management console for site.
- Set connection timeout for IIS site to high value.
- Set the 'Maximum Allowed Content Length' to 2147483647 for IIS app (at request filtering).

> The Sharepoint REST API (which the connector uses) supports uploading files up to 2GB. When working with large files it's recommended to provide the system local path to the file (localFilePath parameter's value) as it's the most efficient way to upload it through the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sharepoint REST API (which the connector uses) supports uploading files of up to 2 GB. When working with large files, it's best practice to provide the system local path to the file (localFilePath parameter's value) because it's the most efficient way to upload the file through the connector.
```
